---
layout: post
tags: [web, jekyll, other, hello, javascript]
---
Hello there! Or, should I say instead:

{% highlight javascript %} var kurtle =function() { console.log("Hello world!"); };

kurtle(); {% endhighlight %}

Thanks for visiting the official blog of... well, me! Some of you (I estimate 8) have previously read the blog posts I wrote a few years ago when I moved across the country from Pittsburgh to San Francisco. From the city of bridges to the city with a really famous bridge. From steel town to silicon valley. From yinzers to hipsters (and hippies). From holy-crap-when-is-spring-coming to holy-crap-when-did-it-last-rain.

As the 8 of you know, I have managed to add one post since my trip from three years ago. One whole post! Clearly, I'm killing it out here. But even so, I've decided it is time to take my blogging game to the next level; it's time to write at least two posts a year. I know, I have bold aspirations, but I'm ready for the challenge.

There are a few reasons I want to start blogging again, none of which I'm going to share with you. Just kidding! I'm just not going to share them with you right now. I need material for my next post (so I can hit my mark of two blog posts per year).

I know that right about now you're thinking... "Kurt, why don't you just continue your old blog? I have it on my Bookmarks Bar and I've been checking once, sometimes twice daily to see if you'd write some new material."

Well, not only am I going to blog more, I'm going to blog better. That's right, I'm going to use my own domain name, customize the styling and learn how to host my own website. I figured these are just a few of the basic skillz I should know as I transition from science to software development. Also, most of the embedded pictures from my original posts are no longer there. Many of those photo captions were fairly comical (I swear!); unfortunately, without an accompanying picture, none of them are funny.

So, I suggest you update your bookmark and point it to this new blog. And start checking that shit 3 or 4 times daily.

Again, just kidding! You can easily subscribe to the rss feed and use an rss reader to get nearly instant updates when I post something.

I really hope this whole thing isn't going to suck.
